I'm Wesley Morris and um
we got to talk about heater rivalry.
>> Ilia Rosenov,
Shane Hollander up. I wanted to
introduce myself.
>> I have watched it. I have watched it
because so many women in my life have
told me to watch it because the
popularity of the show is being driven
by women. In my experience, straight
women who have fallen in love with the
show. Initially, I started watching the
show through the eyes of these women.
And then, I don't know, partway through
episode one, this very curious thing
happened where I was like, "Wait a
minute, this show is actually more than
what I thought it was going to be." And
by like episode 3, I had a thought that
kind of blew my mind, which is part of
what I think is driving the popularity
of this show is it's a fantasy of male
sensitivity. Like I I showed up for the
sex, I guess, like some people, cuz I
was curious about how that worked. to
heard people complaining about the sex.
I don't know. Everything these guys are
doing happens.
This is what we do, people. But what you
don't see us do in very many places in
mass popular culture is talk about our
feelings. Gay men, closeted gay men, men
who, you know, you just don't experience
it. So part of the romance is just the
talking. This is a show that's not about
hockey.
It's not about sex. It's about
communication and how people talk to
each other. And like a really good
example of this communication thing that
that has like really blown my mind
happens I think in episode 3.
Now, I just want to say plot-wise, this
is a show about a guy named Shane and a
guy named Ilia. They play on rival
teams. They start having this
relationship, but then the show makes
this very interesting decision to have a
Bplot involving a different hockey
player who falls in love with a barista.
Do we call He's a smoothista at the at
the drink shop. At the smoothie shop.
>> When I make it for myself in the
morning, I add a banana.
>> Oh, so you're kind of wild. Scott Hunter
is the hockey player who plays for like
a fake New York Rangers team. He picks
up this kid. I'm calling him a kid. He's
probably like 30 years old. And they,
you know, they spend a little bit of
time with each other and they wind up in
a morning after situation in Scott's
kitchen.
>> So, I should probably go
>> at his giant island in his weird
brochurelike mega apartment. and
he's like, "Yo,
I need to talk to you.
>> I'm going to say a bunch of things,
okay? And I know I'm too intense.
Everyone tells me that, but I just I
can't help it."
>> He's like, "I'm really intense."
>> Is it okay? Can I be too intense?
>> Yeah.
>> But I got to say what's in my heart.
>> I really really like you,
>> so I'm I'm asking for what I want.
>> And I I got to go for what I want.
>> I want you to be here when I get back
from practice later.
and I uh want you to be here when I come
home from my game tonight.
>> It would just be it would be really
great if you could be here. It would
make me happy.
>> Is uh is that too much?
>> Is it okay to say that? Everything on
this show, by the way, and part of I
think what some people love about it is
it's all about can I do this? Is it okay
if I do this? Did that make you feel
okay? Can I do this again? Would you
mind if we switched? Everything is
consensual, mutual, but not in like a a
lawyer is sitting on the other side of
the camera making these guys say this.
It is true compassion and it is true
communication. Kip's like, "Huh?"
He walks around the kitchen island,
takes a seat, cuz at this point, poor
Scott is like, "This guy is going to
walk out on me. It's going to break my
heart and ruin my season." but instead
he sits down next to him and says,
>> "I think I'd love to be here when you
get back."
>> I'm in. I'm going to be here when you
come home for practice.
>> What? That is such a romantic thing to
happen. And I want to say that part of
what we're witnessing is something that
feels scarce in this moment. It feels
extremely risky to hear men say what
they feel in their hearts to each other
and for the person receiving this
information to actually absorb and
respond in kind. And
I mean you look beyond your television
set and you can see that men are not
saying things like this to each other.
They are talking about how much they
hate each other. How much they want to
destroy each other. How much they want
to expel, expunge, exccommunicate,
imprison. And here is a little enclosed
universe in which men speak their hearts
cuz they have hearts. These men have big
old hearts and they are beating really
hard for each other. And it's moving.
And I feel like we need that in some
way. We need proof that it is possible.
Even in a work of fiction, that is what
art does. It is showing us what the
whole what is possible for humanity. And
I know
I feel a little absurd even putting it
that way, but I mean it. I really mean
it. This show is such a framework for
how men
can talk to each other, whether they
want to sleep with each other or not.
I think that it's I just rarely see
works of popular culture where the
entire point of what the men are doing
with each other is bearing their souls,
taking the risk, and hoping that the
other person receives their hand when
they put it out. I think that's the
special thing about this show, which is
that it understands that you might have
come for the sex, but you were staying
for the relationship.